
16.03.2021
Phases 1 and 2 of the project are completed.
The simulation functions well enough to facilitate the development and testing of the model.
The project is progressing as scheduled. In my technical plan I expected to be finished with phase 2 by either mid-March or end of March, so I am staying true to my more optimistic prognosis :)

The datastructure Vector2d is implemented and fully tested with Unit tests.
The GUI object (EmergencyExitSimulation) is completed on a basic level. Further development in phase 4.
The functionality of the Room and PersonBody classes is completed, barring their interactions with PersonBrain, which will be developed in phase 3.

The developement is progressing surprisingly smoothly so far. I encountered some difficulties with setting up the project and importing the two needed external libraries. I ended up starting a new project with SBT instead of the IDEA based project, which made it a lot easier to import libraries.
Another snag I had to deal with was connected with testing the Vector2d class - I had to find a way to work with Double values in assert statements. Knowledge about implicit classes ended up coming in handy.
I estimate the total workload at 15 hours so far, including research.

Questions:

1) A warning appears during compilation, not sure what I am supposed to do with it
(Class JavaLaunchHelper is implemented in both /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_144.jdk/Contents/Home/bin/java (0x10ccb34c0) and /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_144.jdk/Contents/Home/jre/lib/libinstrument.dylib (0x10cd314e0). One of the two will be used. Which one is undefined.)

2) So far I have implemented both updating the simulation and redrawing it on the screen in the same thread. I am not sure how to diagnose whether that is currently causing any slowdowns/errors.

3) I am somewhat confused by some of the directories and files that IDEA generates automatically as part of creating an SBT project. I am ok with just ignoring it so far (I do not include most of them in my VCS commits), but I'd love to find a way to learn more about the purpose of those.

4) I wonder if the animations on the webpage http://www.red3d.com/cwr/steer/Doorway.html are still viewable somehow.


31.03.2021

These two weeks I was unable to work on the project as much as I would have hoped for. A deadline for the Machine Learning project forced me to reallocate some time to that course, and some personal problems mounted on top of that, which reulted in me now lagging somewhat behind schedule.
Nevertheless, I was able to make good progress on implementing the logic of the simulaiton. I have the seeking and separation components working, and most of the groundwork done for the braking component.
As some of the heavy computation is already taking place at this stage, I was able to start stress-testing the system with larger rooms and more people. The results are.. less than stellar - the simulation slows down significantly. I have been thinking a lot about potential data structures that would allow for quicker search of neighbors, but so far have come up empty.
I estimate the workload for these two weeks around 10 hours.

Questions:

1) Possibly any recomentadtions on the data structure to use for optimising the neighbor search?

EDIT: I have found some potentially useful data structures, chief among them - the quadtree. It seems that implementing one would take quite a bit of time and effort, do you think it might be worth doing for this project?

P.S.

Thank you very much for taking the time to answer my previous questions, it was a huge help in resolving some of the issues and staying motivated.


13.04.2021

The project is nearing compleation. The four steering behaviors have been inmplemented, although some work is still needed to tune them.
The UI is what I will be targeting next. I have already figured out a way to set it up, all (or most of) the research is done, now it's just a matter of replicating the work I have done for various tunable parameters of the simulation.
After that I will need to implement part of the project that conserns files, hope that doesn't take too long. Overall I am behind schedule at this point, but only ever so slighty.
Workload these two weeks: 15 hours.

Questions:

1) I have added this project to my CV, is it ok if I make the project public in gitlab?

2) The simulation still doesn't look stellar in temrs of realism. I do have avenues which I plan to explore in order to imrove the accuracy of the simulated behaviours, but any tips would be much appreciated.